Summary
=======

Look back all the chapters. We started from Python's environment setup, to some
programming skills. You've learned how to declare variables. You've learned how
to use operators. You've learned how to build conditional statements and loop
statements. You've learned to define functions and classes, and how to use them
properly in a module or a package. Try to link all you've learned, you will be
able to code with ease. Of course these are not all what Python has. Python is
kind of a progamming language that is easy to learn but hard to master. You do
some light learning on it, then you can come to a solution to some simple tasks.
But if you treat Python as a major, a job or even a dream, you have to dig
deeper. What you have to do is not only Python, but also beyond Python.

Don't be at sea or lazy. There is no shortcut to success. You dig deeper, you
get more. For example, how do we know what can an ``int`` instance do? Dig
deeper! You can turn to the official documentation or source code. If you are
using PyCharm, use ``Ctrl + Left Button`` on ``int`` to reach to its source
code, and you see:

.. code-block:: python

    class int(object):
    """
    int([x]) -> integer
    int(x, base=10) -> integer

    Convert a number or string to an integer, or return 0 if no arguments
    are given.  If x is a number, return x.__int__().  For floating point
    numbers, this truncates towards zero.

    If x is not a number or if base is given, then x must be a string,
    bytes, or bytearray instance representing an integer literal in the
    given base.  The literal can be preceded by '+' or '-' and be surrounded
    by whitespace.  The base defaults to 10.  Valid bases are 0 and 2-36.
    Base 0 means to interpret the base from the string as an integer literal.
    >>> int('0b100', base=0)
    4
    """
    ...

Methods are omitted. You get how ``int`` works by reading docstrings. You get
all int's methods and their usage. You can get all about ``int`` here. While
you learing some third-party frameworks, such as ``flask``, ``django``. The
first step, of course, is **following the official documentation and tutorial**.
Nearly all of the opensource frameworks' developers have a great programming
habit. They organize codes elegantly and comment perfectly. It helps you get
a usage easily.

Additionally, you need to practise more. Learing through the documentation can
not lead to a perfect project. Learn by purpose and try in practical application,
you will have a rapid growth.

It is important to have a good ability of English if it's not your mother
language. Because most of the documentation is in English, as English is the
most common language on earth. So during the development, you'd better comment
in English as well, or you confirm that foreigners will never maintain your
project.

Then the tutorial series seems to be finished. You've nearly got all the basic
knowledge of Python. But hold on! Nobody tells it's going to come to an end.
It's just a very beginning.

I'm not a teacher. I'm a learner too. Keep learning make you stronger. Don't
make yourself easy and comfortable. Never too late to learn.

Fighting!
